# Python Programming Language

![Logo](https://www.tiobe.com/wp-content/themes/tiobe/tiobe-index/images/Python.png)

**Rank:** 1

**Rating:** 23.85%

**Change:** +8.22%

## Additional Information

Python is a programming language that is widely used in web
applications, software development, data science, and machine learning
(ML). Developers use Python because it is efficient and easy to learn
and can run on many different platforms. Python software is free to
download, integrates well with all types of systems, and increases
development speed.

What type of language is Python? Python is an interpreted, object-
oriented, high-level programming language with dynamic semantics
developed by Guido van Rossum. It was originally released in 1991.
Designed to be easy as well as fun, the name "Python" is a nod to the
British comedy group Monty Python. Python has a reputation as a
beginner-friendly language, replacing Java as the most widely used
introductory language because it handles much of the complexity for
the user, allowing beginners to focus on fully grasping programming
concepts rather than minute details.   Python is used for server-side
web development, software development, mathematics, and system
scripting, and is popular for Rapid Application Development and as a
scripting or glue language to tie existing components because of its
high-level, built-in data structures, dynamic typing, and dynamic
binding. Program maintenance costs are reduced with Python due to the
easily learned syntax and emphasis on readability. Additionally,
Python's support of modules and packages facilitates modular programs
and reuse of code. Python is an open source community language, so
numerous independent programmers are continually building libraries
and functionality for it.  Python Use Cases

